Tests to build (#75)
APIs-guru/graphql-over-http: working-group/test-suite.md

# Test Suite

> These are the description of the test that we intend to build. This document is a scaffold until we have the tests implemented. At that point, the code itself will become the documentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are the descriptions of the tests that we intend to build. This document is a scaffold until we have the tests implemented. At that point, the code itself will become the documentation. 
```

## Requests

> Server expense serialization format to be declared in the content-type of the request. 

Reviewer 2: Expense?

> Server expense serialization format to be declared in the content-type of the request. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server expects serialization format to be declared in the `Content-Type` header of the request.
```

> Server should validate the content-type based in the request to ensure it's a content type (serialization format) that it supports 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server SHOULD validate the request's `Content-Type` to ensure it is supported
```

> Server should validate the content-type based in the request to ensure it's a content type (serialization format) that it supports

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Server SHOULD validate the content-type based in the request to ensure it's a content type (serialization format) that it supports
```

> * Return `415 Unsupported Media Type` otherwise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Return `415 Unsupported Media Type` if request `Content-Type` is not supported
```

> A GET method should be successful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A GET method SHOULD be successful
```

* Attempt a GET method request for introspection
   query (serialized as URL encoded key-value pair)

> A POST method should be successful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A POST method SHOULD be successful
```

* Attempt a POST method for introspection
   query (serialized in body)

> A GET method with query, operationName and variable should be successful

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A GET method with query, operationName and variable SHOULD be successful
```

> A POST method with query, operationName and variable should be successful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At least one of the following MUST be successful:
* A GET method with query, operationName and variables
* A POST method with query, operationName and variables
```

## Responses

> A 200 response should include a body. The body should include at least a `data` attribute or an `errors` attribute.

Reviewer 2: Are we talking about json responses? It should be stated explicitly. If so then I propose to change wording from attribute to property.

> A 200 response should include a body. The body should include at least a `data` attribute or an `errors` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A 200 response MUST include a body. If the body has `Content-Type` of `application/json`, `application/graphql` or `application/graphql+json`, the body MUST be a JSON object that conforms to the ["Response Format" as specified in the GraphQL Specification](https://spec.graphql.org/June2018/#sec-Response-Format).
```

Reviewer 3: I think `application/graphql` is not meant to be used for responses, only for requests. It makes sense when sending a raw query string like so:

    curl -v -H "Content-Type: application/graphql" -d "{ hello }"  "localhost:3000/graphql"

It might be a valid response header, but not to represent the result of a GraphQL operation. I guess it could be used for something like a schema/query generator.

Author: I believe the content-type `application/graphql+json` can refer to a GraphQL JSON response document and the GraphQL request body. In other words, I think it should be a JSON document containing at least one of `data` or `errors` as top level attributes in a response. 

When sending a POST request, a client should send `application/graphql+json` in the general case because they are also sending a JSON document, this time including a `query`, `operationName` and `variables` as the top-level attributes. The GraphQL query itself, which is found in this object (in the case of a POST request) at the `query` parameter should conform to the GraphQL specification.

I'm not clear on whether `application/graphql` is a synonym for `application/graphql+json`. Hypothetically, `application/graphql` could be distinct and refer to a valid GraphQL document string. However, we then would not be able to use it in GraphQL over HTTP since at no time do we send _only a GraphQL query string_ to a server or receive _only a GraphQL query string_ from a server.

If no `Accept` header is sent in the request the server MAY choose whatever serialization format it defaults to. 

> The server SHOULD include a `content-type` header in the response to indicate what serialization format was used in the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server MUST specify a valid `Content-Type` header in the response, indicating which serialziation format was used. This header MAY include encoding information (e.g. `Content-type: application/json; charset=utf-8`)
```

Author: I added some of this in #83

If `Accept` header is given in the request, the server should serialize the body in the response according to one of the content-types in the `Accepted` HTTP header.

> If all of the content-types listed in `Accept` are not supported by the server there are two valid options: return a 406 or return in the default content-type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server SHOULD validate the `Accept` header, if any, in the request.

The server SHOULD serialize the body in the response according to the first supported content-type in the `Accept` header, if present.

If none of the content-types in the `Accept` header are supported, the server MUST _either_:
* return a `406 Not Acceptable` status code; _or_
* ignore the `Accept` header and instead use the server's preferred `Content-Type`.
```

Author: These are some good suggestions, but I feel they pertain more to the spec than to the tests we wish to write. I've attempted to work them into this PR: https://github.com/APIs-guru/graphql-over-http/pull/83

> If the header field is
   present in a request and none of the available representations for
   the response have a media type that is listed as acceptable, the
   origin server can either honor the header field by sending a 406 (Not
   Acceptable) response or disregard the header field by treating the
   response as if it is not subject to content negotiation.
   [HTTP 1.1 Accept](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-5.3.2)

> Server may response with non-200 status codes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server MUST NOT respond with any status code between 201 and 299 inclusive.

Server MUST respond with a 200 status code if the GraphQL request has been executed [as defined in "Executing Operations" in the GraphQL Specification](https://spec.graphql.org/June2018/#sec-Executing-Operations).

Server MAY respond with non-200 status codes if the GraphQL request is invalid, or if the server is unable to process it.
```

Author: We need to put this language in the spec first and then let the test cases fall out from that. Could this be made as a proposal on https://github.com/APIs-guru/graphql-over-http/pull/79?

> Syntax error in the query should result in either a 200 with an `error` attribute in the body or a 400 response. 

Reviewer 2: For syntax error spec now allows only 4xx and 5xx error codes
https://github.com/APIs-guru/graphql-over-http#status-codes

Author: That's a good point. I feel conflicted over this since I think the spec should probably be more permissive on this point. But my concern is better to raise on the main spec, than here.

Reviewer 2: The point is that 200 may be returned only when GraphQL execution actually started. Otherwise there is no "GraphQL context". Syntax error or other errors **before** execution should return 4xx or 5xx.
